README.markdown, before:


Intro
=====

A data binding framework that generates type-safe binding classes.

Or, OGNL with no strings.

Originally built for the [joist](http://joist.ws) web framework. See joist's [bindgen](http://joist.ws/bindgen.html) page for more docs.

A test case:

    public void testEmployerThroughEmployee() {
        Employer er = new Employer();
        er.name = "at&t";

        Employee ee = new Employee();
        ee.name = "bob";
        ee.employer = er;

        EmployeeBinding eb = new EmployeeBinding(ee); // EmployeeBinding is generated by bindgen
        eb.name(); // name() returns a StringBinding instance instead of the actual name String

        // During rendering TextBox calls StringBinding.get()
        Assert.assertEquals("bob", new TextBox(eb.name()).toString());
        Assert.assertEquals("at&t", new TextBox(eb.employer().name()).toString());

        // During POST procesing TextBox calls StringBinding.set()
        new TextBox(eb.name()).set("newBob");
        new TextBox(eb.employer().name()).set("newAt&t");
        Assert.assertEquals("newBob", ee.name);
        Assert.assertEquals("newAt&t", er.name);
    }

The point being that `eb.employer().name()` does not immediately return the value of `name`, but instead returns a `StringBinding` that the web framework can bind values into/out of as it serves the request.

Annotations
===========

Bindgen is implemented as JDK6 annotation processor. When configured in your IDE (e.g. with project-specific settings in Eclipse), as soon as you add a `@Bindable` annotation to a class `Foo`, and hit save, the IDE immediately invokes the [Processor][2] behind the scenes and `FooBinding` is created.

[2]: /stephenh/bindgen/blob/master/processor/src/main/java/org/bindgen/processor/Processor.java

Another Example
===============

This is a spike from a [Click][1]-like web framework I'm hacking around on:

    @Bindable
    public class HomePage extends AbstractPage {

        public Form form = new Form("Login");
        public String username = "blah";
        public String password;

        @Override
        public void onInit() {
            HomePageBinding b = bind(this); // static import of BindKeyword.bind
            this.form.add(new TextField(b.username()));
            this.form.add(new TextField(b.password()));
            this.form.add(new SubmitField(b.submit()));
        }

        public void submit() {
            // do stuff with this.username and this.password
        }
    }


The `HomePageBinding` class is auto-generated because of the `@Bindable` annotation on the `HomePage` class.

When the form POSTs, the TextFields call the `Binding.set` methods with their form values, which populates the `this.username` and `this.password` fields.

Fun things like type conversion using `Binding.getType()` method to go from strings -> whatever would be possible too.

[1]: http://click.sf.net

Stateless Bindings
==================

Stateless bindings allows a single `Binding` instance to be evaluated against multiple roots in a thread-safe manner.

For example:

    // Make just once instance of PersonBinding/StringBindingPath
    PersonBinding p = new PersonBinding();
    // Get a binding to their first name, through the Demographics object
    StringBindingPath<Person> b = p.demographics().firstName();
    // thread1
    b.getWithRoot(bob); // returns Bob
    b.setWithRoob(bob, "Bobby"); // changes bob
    // thread2
    b.getWithRoot(fred); // returns Fred

None of the `getWithRoot`/`setWithRoot` invocations will step on each other's toes if running concurrently.

For more examples, see [MethodExampleStatelessTest][4].

[4]: /stephenh/bindgen/blob/master/examples/src/test/java/org/bindgen/example/methods/MethodExampleStatelessTest.java

Gotchas
=======

* Eclipse: 3.5 works best--3.4 has several bugs that were fixed (see [263985][3])
* Eclipse: Annotating packages does not work
* Eclipse: Must be run *on* a JDK6 JVM--for Macs, this means 3.5 64-bit on the Apple 64-bit JDK6
* IntelliJ: Has mediocre support for annotation processors (last I checked)
* `javac`: Does not properly re-use already-generated classes, so pass `-AskipExistingBindingCheck=true` to re-generate all of the binding classes each time

[3]: https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=263985

Todo
====

* Support extension methods, e.g. StringBinding could have extra methods like `length()`, `substring()`, etc., ideally configurable - done.
* Optional null-safe get/set, e.g. `eb.employer().name()` with a null `employer` could have `get()` return `null` and not NPE and `set()` could create a `new Employer()` to then call `setName()` on to again avoid the NPE
* Document options, `fixRawTypes`, `bindgen.log`, etc.
* Package a `bindgen-profiled` that has post-processed/something basic wall clock timing for performance analysis
* Make `Util.resolveTypeVarIfPossible` go away in favor of `Types.memberOf` (if possible)
  * Looks like not--`Types.getMemberOf` doesn't resolve the generic in `setFoo(T foo)` when inherited by a `Child extends Parent<String>`
  * Probably needs the type `Parent<String>` passed to it, which would mean remembering which super-type we're on instead of using `getAllMembers`
  * Perhaps this would be solved by having child bindings inherit from the parent, e.g. `ChildBindingPath extends ParentBindingPath<String>`
* Move most `Binding` methods behind a `asBound` method so that generated bindings don't have a polluted name space
* Add `Binding.getTag/setTag` for attaching metadata to binding instances (like gwt-mpv properties)

Commit message:

Link to the igloo fork.

README.markdown, after:


Status
======

I'm no longer actively maintaining this project; see [this fork](https://github.com/igloo-project/bindgen/) for a more active project.

Intro
=====

A data binding framework that generates type-safe binding classes.

Or, OGNL with no strings.

Originally built for the [joist](http://joist.ws) web framework. See joist's [bindgen](http://joist.ws/bindgen.html) page for more docs.

A test case:

    public void testEmployerThroughEmployee() {
        Employer er = new Employer();
        er.name = "at&t";

        Employee ee = new Employee();
        ee.name = "bob";
        ee.employer = er;

        EmployeeBinding eb = new EmployeeBinding(ee); // EmployeeBinding is generated by bindgen
        eb.name(); // name() returns a StringBinding instance instead of the actual name String

        // During rendering TextBox calls StringBinding.get()
        Assert.assertEquals("bob", new TextBox(eb.name()).toString());
        Assert.assertEquals("at&t", new TextBox(eb.employer().name()).toString());

        // During POST procesing TextBox calls StringBinding.set()
        new TextBox(eb.name()).set("newBob");
        new TextBox(eb.employer().name()).set("newAt&t");
        Assert.assertEquals("newBob", ee.name);
        Assert.assertEquals("newAt&t", er.name);
    }

The point being that `eb.employer().name()` does not immediately return the value of `name`, but instead returns a `StringBinding` that the web framework can bind values into/out of as it serves the request.

Annotations
===========

Bindgen is implemented as JDK6 annotation processor. When configured in your IDE (e.g. with project-specific settings in Eclipse), as soon as you add a `@Bindable` annotation to a class `Foo`, and hit save, the IDE immediately invokes the [Processor][2] behind the scenes and `FooBinding` is created.

[2]: /stephenh/bindgen/blob/master/processor/src/main/java/org/bindgen/processor/Processor.java

Another Example
===============

This is a spike from a [Click][1]-like web framework I'm hacking around on:

    @Bindable
    public class HomePage extends AbstractPage {

        public Form form = new Form("Login");
        public String username = "blah";
        public String password;

        @Override
        public void onInit() {
            HomePageBinding b = bind(this); // static import of BindKeyword.bind
            this.form.add(new TextField(b.username()));
            this.form.add(new TextField(b.password()));
            this.form.add(new SubmitField(b.submit()));
        }

        public void submit() {
            // do stuff with this.username and this.password
        }
    }


The `HomePageBinding` class is auto-generated because of the `@Bindable` annotation on the `HomePage` class.

When the form POSTs, the TextFields call the `Binding.set` methods with their form values, which populates the `this.username` and `this.password` fields.

Fun things like type conversion using `Binding.getType()` method to go from strings -> whatever would be possible too.

[1]: http://click.sf.net

Stateless Bindings
==================

Stateless bindings allows a single `Binding` instance to be evaluated against multiple roots in a thread-safe manner.

For example:

    // Make just once instance of PersonBinding/StringBindingPath
    PersonBinding p = new PersonBinding();
    // Get a binding to their first name, through the Demographics object
    StringBindingPath<Person> b = p.demographics().firstName();
    // thread1
    b.getWithRoot(bob); // returns Bob
    b.setWithRoob(bob, "Bobby"); // changes bob
    // thread2
    b.getWithRoot(fred); // returns Fred

None of the `getWithRoot`/`setWithRoot` invocations will step on each other's toes if running concurrently.

For more examples, see [MethodExampleStatelessTest][4].

[4]: /stephenh/bindgen/blob/master/examples/src/test/java/org/bindgen/example/methods/MethodExampleStatelessTest.java

Gotchas
=======

* Eclipse: 3.5 works best--3.4 has several bugs that were fixed (see [263985][3])
* Eclipse: Annotating packages does not work
* Eclipse: Must be run *on* a JDK6 JVM--for Macs, this means 3.5 64-bit on the Apple 64-bit JDK6
* IntelliJ: Has mediocre support for annotation processors (last I checked)
* `javac`: Does not properly re-use already-generated classes, so pass `-AskipExistingBindingCheck=true` to re-generate all of the binding classes each time

[3]: https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=263985

Todo
====

* Support extension methods, e.g. StringBinding could have extra methods like `length()`, `substring()`, etc., ideally configurable - done.
* Optional null-safe get/set, e.g. `eb.employer().name()` with a null `employer` could have `get()` return `null` and not NPE and `set()` could create a `new Employer()` to then call `setName()` on to again avoid the NPE
* Document options, `fixRawTypes`, `bindgen.log`, etc.
* Package a `bindgen-profiled` that has post-processed/something basic wall clock timing for performance analysis
* Make `Util.resolveTypeVarIfPossible` go away in favor of `Types.memberOf` (if possible)
  * Looks like not--`Types.getMemberOf` doesn't resolve the generic in `setFoo(T foo)` when inherited by a `Child extends Parent<String>`
  * Probably needs the type `Parent<String>` passed to it, which would mean remembering which super-type we're on instead of using `getAllMembers`
  * Perhaps this would be solved by having child bindings inherit from the parent, e.g. `ChildBindingPath extends ParentBindingPath<String>`
* Move most `Binding` methods behind a `asBound` method so that generated bindings don't have a polluted name space
* Add `Binding.getTag/setTag` for attaching metadata to binding instances (like gwt-mpv properties)
